

there are two ways i can make the 6502 emulator work :

(1) by keeping the opcodes as hex codes : and by using hex code 
		i dont have to worry about the addressing mode of each instruction.

(2) or by keeping the assembly as strings but than i need addressing modes
		to parse properly.	

(3)  LDA $31F6 is stored as three bytes in memory, $AD $F6 $31... low byte is stored first.


CPU : 
	instructions :
		the thing here is that in 6502 unlike 8085 where the addressing modes where incorporated
		in the opcode like in the name itself (e.g. LDA, LDI) etc 
		here its different, in 6502 the name is same for different Addressind modes
		but still it will be different when opcode is represented in HEX notation.
		we know that there is a 16 x 16 matrix which represent total opcodes.

		now theres one thing , first we will definitely make a emulator for 6502
		before NES and our Goal is to make the 6502 emulator work perfectly seperate
		as its own project which will be able to run programs written for 6502
		which means it has its own parser and aseembler

		APPRAOCH : now we can approach it in two ways:
								 
					(1) first is to keep it simple and let the opcodes be written in 
					hex notation and let the emulator parse them directly like we did
					in LAB ( meaning no need to worry about figuiring out addressing mode)

					(2) keep the programs as it is in english and make a parser for them
					which will then require addressing modes too 
					BUT this one will be the right way to proceede as eventually the games 
					of NES will be coded that way so yeah 


		PARSER APPRAOCH : we make the functions for only
											56 opcodes and then keep the arguments for 
											that function for the max arguments that 
											that specific opcodes can have 
											and keep the default value like -1 
											if its the other addressing mode.



Q: Basic computer operation question but I'm not sure how to ask it. 
When we say that a computer has an instruction set, how does the 
computer know what that set is? Is it stored in a ROM chip? Is 
it stored in the CPU somewhere? Where did the manufacturer put 
it so that it can read a disk and start processing machine code?


ANS : The instruction set is hardwired into the CPU... 
	It's actually a result of the way the circuit is built, there isn't an actual
	space where the instructions are kept.

	When a computer starts, there's a small program on a ROM that knows how to 
	initialize all the components and boot the OS. Because of the way a computer
	is built, this program is the first to run.

	Instruction set

	An instruction set is the set of machine code instructions that the CPU is
	built to handle. The CPU doesn't have to load it from anywhere, it's built-in
	to the CPU itself. Examples of instruction sets are: Intel x86, MIPS.


	Boot loader

	The boot loader is a small program that tells the CPU how to get the computer 
	started. Obviously it's written using the CPU instruction set, and usually 
	resides in ROM or EEPROM or something. It tells the CPU how to interface 
	with the disk to load a boot sector (which then loads more of 
	the operating system). On a PC, the boot loader is part of the BIOS.



APPRAOCH on handling INSTRUCTIONS :  
			what we decided finally is that having seperate classes for addressing modes 
			and opcodes is bad bc they are a part of CPU itself so they should belong inside
			the CPU6502 class itself. and it also saved us with a lot of bad passing of references
			of objects of the classes for example passing CPU6502 object to Instruction 
			so it can access PC register and upgrade the same PC register 
			
			Inheritance was also a bad idea bc it wouldve been wrong in the first place
			like what does it even mean that AddressingModes class is inheriting from CPU
			
			plus lets just assume we even went on with it, then we had to make the member 
			variable (like registers etc) of CPU6502 class ' STATIC ' so that they 
			could be only inititated once and regardless of how many derived class objects 
			are made it will only update the same base class varibale.

			so the optimal thing to do is to put the addressing modes and opcodes inside
			the CPU6502 class along with nested INSTRUCTIONS class.

INSTRUCTION CLASS : instruction class hold the name of the instruction along with the 
					with the function pointers of opcode funcs and addr mode funcs 
					so we can create a std::vector<instructions> (256) having all the
					combinations of opcodes and addr modes.


AddressingModes : The clock cycles mentioned for each addressing mode on the 6502 CPU
 represent the total time required to execute the entire instruction, including:

    Opcode Fetch: The CPU fetches the instruction's opcode from memory.
    Operand Fetch: If needed, the CPU fetches the operand(s)
		 (e.g., immediate value, memory address).
    Address Calculation: If the instruction uses an addressing mode that involves 
		calculating an effective address (like adding a register to a base address), 
		this is included.Memory Access: The CPU reads from or writes to memory if 
		required by the instruction (e.g., loading data into a 
		register, storing data from a register).

Behind the Scenes Breakdown:

    Cycle 1: Fetch the opcode (always happens).
    Cycle 2+: Depending on the addressing mode, fetch operand(s) and 
							calculate the effective address.
    Final Cycles: Perform the operation, potentially reading from 
								or writing to memory.

Example (LDA $1234,X with Page Cross):

    Cycle 1: Fetch opcode (LDA).
    Cycle 2-3: Fetch address $1234 and add X to it.
    Cycle 4: Access the calculated address, but if the address crosses a 
		page boundary, an additional cycle is needed to correct the address.

BUGS in addressing modes : 
	there are some bugs or work around in addressing modes in 6502
	like if in zero page addressing mode where X,Y register is added to offest
	if it crosses the 0xFF boundary . it doesnt go into the next page 
	it wrap arounds in the zeroth page to save one clock cycle.

	another one is indirect mode where the lo byte of the pointed address
	is on some page with offest at 0xFF which means the hi byte is on the next 
	page , but it also doesnt happen it also wraps around in the same page

Question:

Why does crossing a page boundary in certain addressing modes (e.g., Absolute,X)
result in an extra clock cycle, while crossing a page boundary during normal 
program execution does not?

Answer:

When the program counter (PC) crosses a page boundary(sequential fetch), the CPU simply 
fetches the next sequential byte without extra cycles. However, in addressing modes 
involving index registers (like Absolute,X),(Effective Address Calculation) if the addition 
of the index to the base address causes a page boundary crossing, the CPU incurs 
an extra cycle to correct the effective address. The extra cycle is due to the overhead of 
handling the carry-over in the address calculation.

Question :

How would we know even after addressing mode function runs, now opcode fucntion has to run
how would it know still that what to do with the operand, should it have multiple
switch cases inside (e.g. AND (){} should have switch cases for IMM IND etc)?

ANSWER :

No, we dont have to take care of that. Regardless of whatever is the addressing mode
the opcode only cares about what it wants like in AND it only cares about data fetched
and it will be provided by all the ADDRESSING MODES to it , the most updted one
bc the executor will always run the addr mode func first and then the opcode func.



OPCODE : PHP() =  When an interrupt occurs, and the status register is pushed onto the stack,
 									the B flag is set to 1 if the interrupt was caused by a BRK instruction, 
									 and to 0 if it was a hardware interrupt.

